eflection on Challenges and Strategies
Challenges:
Git configuration: Understanding Git commands and workflows.
Python installation: Verifying Python paths and versions.
MySQL setup: Troubleshooting database connection issues.
Strategies:
Online resources: Refer to official documentation and community forums.
Trial and error: Experiment and learn from mistakes.
Collaborate: Seek help from peers or mentors.

Windows 11 Installation
I downloaded the Windows 11 Installation Assistant from the official Microsoft website.
Following the prompts, I installed Windows 11 on my current device.
I ensured that my PC met the system requirements for Windows 11.
2. Visual Studio Code (VS Code) Installation
I downloaded Visual Studio Code for free.
After the download completed, I ran the installer.
During installation, I customized the settings according to my preferences (e.g., theme, extensions).
3. Git Setup
I installed Git by downloading it from the official Git website.
After installation, I configured my Git username and email using the following commands:
git config --global user.name "My Name"
git config --global user.email "my@email.com"

I created a GitHub account if I didn’t have one already.
4. Python Installation
I visited python.org and downloaded the Python installer.
During installation, I selected the option to add Python to my system PATH.
I verified the installation by running python --version in the command prompt.
5. MySQL Database Setup
I downloaded the MySQL installer for Windows from MySQL.
During installation, I selected the MySQL Server and MySQL Workbench components.
I set a root password for MySQL during the installation process.
6. Optional: Docker
I considered using Docker for containerization.
If needed, I downloaded and installed Docker Desktop for Windows.
7. VS Code Extensions
I explored available extensions in VS Code:
Installed Python extension for Python development.
Installed GitLens for enhanced Git integration.
Explored other extensions based on my project needs.
